The collaboration builds on an existing Adobe partnership that focused on rallying the organization around digital. IBM understood that at its core, the key to customer-centricity and great digital experiences was built on a foundation of content and data. The company has made great progress in streamlining on how content is stored, accessed, and reused across the organization. A landing page that used to take 3 days to develop, could now be done in under an hour.
IBM is also adding Adobe Workfront to its stack of enterprise applications within Adobe Experience Cloud. The platform empowers IBM’ers to work more efficiently together, and meet the rapidly changing demands of customers and the market. Workfront offers a single destination to collaborate and execute on campaigns, while automating workflows around approvals and requests. It also drives greater visibility across an organization, helping ensure that teams are delivering content and experiences that are consistent and optimized.
Across the company, IBM had grown to over 40 million web pages. “The reason we got there is because we built it based on our internal organization,” said Sheinkin. “Now we’re building the site for customers.” In rebuilding its website, IBM is focusing on simpler navigation and cleaner, more consistent pages that provide a better customer journey across roughly 6,700 pages.
At its core, IBM needed to unify its digital assets. Previously, over 40 digital asset management repositories each had countless box folders and desktops, all adding up to thousands of content locations that housed over 171,000 assets. “The big opportunity was our best content wasn't getting in front of our customers,” said Sheinkin. Working with its own consulting organization in addition to Adobe Consulting, IBM now manages all of its content within Adobe Experience Manager Assets, allowing marketers to locate the right content quickly using automated identifiers on its assets.
To make use of its unified assets, Sheinkin and his team also had to rethink the way IBM built web pages. On its legacy content management platform Drupal, marketers across the business all had access to creating pages. As a result, IBM had a staggering 10,500 templates. “It felt really empowering to marketers — except think about how bad that is for the customer,” said Sheinkin. “IBM wasn't coming across as one entity. We came across as hundreds.” After moving to Experience Manager Sites, Sheinkin and his team developed a handful of reusable templates to unify IBM’s messaging across the company. While IBM’s web page templates now tell a unified story, they’re also more efficient for marketers to create. “Marketers who thought this change was going to be incredibly constraining to their creative process suddenly realized how it’s unbelievably freeing,” Sheinkin said. “They don't have to worry about design and can stay consistent with the IBM brand.” Pages that used to take marketers 3 days to create now take them 45 minutes.
“Every industry is reimagining their role within the digital economy, and looking to IBM for cloud and AI technologies that will give their transformation journey greater speed and efficiency,” said Ari Sheinkin, vice president of Experience Engine, IBM. “Customers expect more of our organization, and delivering a great omnichannel experience will help us build trust in our brand and technology offerings. Adobe Experience Cloud is an important partner in this journey, with applications that provide deep insights and an ability to orchestrate personalized experiences at broad scale.”